Choosing a hotel in Paris is always a difficult task. Everything looks good online, but is it? Our stay at Hotel Malte was PERFECT! The room was lovely, the mattress was extremely comfortable, and all the special goodies they offer for free are wonderful. All of the staff are absolutely first rate!! They cater to their guests and work hard to make sure you are enjoying your stay. Seyil, Irene, Stephanie, Hakan and Sinian and all of the rest of the staff are the best. The hotel is in the 2nd arrondissement and is close to everything including the very cool Asian food district. It is a wonderful place to land in Paris., The reception was friendly and professional and speedy. The room was ready and perfect. The bed was very comfortable and the air conditioning was silent and potent. 
The free afternoon tea was amazing and open until 2 am. 
The breakfast was one of the very best you could find in Paris., Wonderful room and location, as well as kind, friendly staff.  The hotel also offers free snacks and drinks in the lobby, which was such an unexpected treat.  Amazing location for food and coffee shops!, We spent one night here on our way south. The hotel is in a brilliant location, friendly staff, super comfortable room and plentiful tasty breakfast. We will certainly be back the next time we’re in Paris., Walking into hotel for first time we were impressed with the ambience, decor, cleanliness and spaciousness of lobby area.  Checking in was a seamless experience and all reception staff so friendly, professional, knowledgeable and helpful at checking and throughout our stay.   I saw from his badge Jorge was in training and he was fantastic.  

Our room was clean, quiet and comfortable and breakfast was fresh and plentiful.

Can highly recommend which is in no small part due to the manners and helpfulness of the cleaning, reception and kitchen staff.   Very well done., My husband and I stayed in five cities -- and six hotels -- across Europe for our honeymoon, and this was by far our favorite hotel. The location was wonderful -- convenient for walking and Metro, with restaurants and other activities nearby. The service from the staff was unparalleled; everyone was so friendly and patient with my poor French (and they spoke English!) And the breakfast, wow! Delicious! We will definitely stay here again if we are lucky enough to return to Paris., The hotel is very neat and clean. Location is just perfect 300 m  from Louvre. It delivers everything it tells, but it is a 4star hotel so it has additional service. Breakfast ist very good quality but also self-service coffe from the coffee maschine self made. 
Upon our arrival we wanted to have a little coctail in the hotel lobby but there was no one to serve us and they also told us they only serve tea an coffee. Room mini bar is included but also no wine or spirits are provided. 
Overal very good experience clean an friendly staff but no aditional service. If you are looking for more luxurious experience I recommend a 5 star hotel., We really appreciate the help we received from Seyil and Princess. They helped us get settled in and recommended great restaurants and trips to Louvre and Eiffel Tower. We hope they are recognized by their managers., This place: the hotel, the rooms, the staff, the location, the prices....all top notch. I've already thought, if/when I get back to Paris, I'll likely stay here....

Paris is very expensive. This hotel does not skimp on quality, but the price was definitely one of the lowest I saw, short of a hostel or other undesired accommodation.

I started a review that I apparently lost.
The staff are very friendly and helpful.
There is a safe parking garage about 3-4 blocks away at The Bourse. It would be wise to book in advance for discounts. You can download a parking app to do it all electronically. I wish I knew that in advance.

There are a lot of useful establishments nearby (a carrefour (grocery store), a laundromat, a pharmacy as well as restaurants and a quick walk to the Palais Royal area with the Louvre, etc. I believe the Eiffel Tower is about a 45 minute walk along The Seine with it's views and lower level where folks exercise, have dance instructions at night, etc.)

I could spend a month in Paris exploring more that it has to offer, but alas I just had 5-1/2 days.

Enjoy!, Centrally located, wonderful staff, and they even gave us treats every day. The staff was wonderful, they gave us so many good tips to explore the city, and I highly recommend this hotel as it was definitely affordable. Felt very comfortable and at ease in the location., The hotel is very well situated within walking distance to many of the popular tourist sites. The rooms were very clean and quiet, food was great and the service was exceptional particularly Irene. Would definitely stay here again and highly recommend!, Hotel Malte  - Astotel was great to stay at.  The staff are very attentive to your needs, and requests.  Very helpful if you need help in reserving restaurants or local attractions. They have many other hotels around the area where you can go to at anytime and use their facilities and have food/drinks etc... whenever you want., The staff was extremely helpful, the rooms were perfect. Clean, comfortable and quiet. The breakfast buffet was extensive, and the complimentary afternoon break included soft drinks, pastries cookies and snacks of all variety. Easy walking distance to the Louvre, Sene and Notre Dame., Very nice staff, amazing breakfast and beautiful rooms! Keep doing what your are doing! 
The rooms were always cleaned and taken care of, everyday the staff made sure we were comfortable and happy. The breakfast room is always very clean and organized and the variety is nice too, Hotel Malte was a real treat. First of all location was amazing. My husband walked everywhere from there. The staff was always super friendly and ready to assist at any moment. The rooms were comfortable and they include a mini fridge that is fully stocked with assorted complementary drinks. They also have a tea time starting at 2pm where you can enjoy and assortment of snacks, tea, coffee and other non alcoholic beverages. The hotel is also located in an area with a lot of Asian infused restaurants that are delightful!  So location, customer service and price makes this little hotel a 10 in books!!, The location is great, turn right and walk for 5 minutes and you find The Louvre practically at the end of the road.
The room was very clean and well appointed, the bed was firm and comfortable. 
I was pleasantly surprised to find a free mini bar in the room, and a free drink and snack area in reception, very thoughtful and lifts Astotel above most other similar hotels. 
The staff were all great - relaxed and personable while still being efficient. 
The rooms are very quiet, especially for a city centre hotel. You can hear some noise from other residents but this was minimal., I spent one night at Malte hotel. Everything was perfect ,better than expected.
Great location, super central, nice restaurants near by.
Very nice room comfy, light and clean . Bathroom is very small.
Super nice team very helpful and great breakfast., This is our 2nd stay at Astotel Malte.  Location is within short walking distance to the Louvre (10 mins), Museé D'Orsay (20 mins), and several metro stations.  Bus took us from train station Gare Du Nord to steps from hotel entrance and same bus  took us to Montparnasse (group of eight - all with checked bags) to another train station. Breakfast is good variety.  Afternoon/ evening snacks and refreshments are available daily.  Staff is knowledgeable and helpful.  Our duplex rooms were spacious.  Would definitely stay again!!, My husband and I recently stayed at this hotel during our week in Paris and are very pleased with it. The staff were extremely helpful and accommodating. We had a "privilege room", which was quite spacious for 2 people and even had a designated dressing area/alcove and fridge. The drinks in the fridge were complimentary and replaced every day. Our room was cleaned well every day. We used their laundry service, which we were happy with and was reasonably priced. And even though they told us laundry given in the morning is usually returned the following day, our laundry (cleaned, pressed, and folded) was returned to us that afternoon on the same day. We were very impressed!

It rained occasionally during our trip (first week of September), and the hotel has plenty of umbrellas you can borrow. We took advantage of the buffet breakfasts in the lobby most mornings we were there, which were delicious! We stayed a week and there was enough variety that we didn't get tired of their breakfast options.

Our favorite part of the hotel was the free drinks (including a machine that makes most essential coffee beverages) and snacks (chips, nuts, breads, and pastries) that were available in the lobby all day. Our vacation involved a lot of walking, museums, sightseeing, etc. And it was such a welcome relief to take breaks at the hotel to relax, refuel and rehydrate, before going back out to see more! And the hotel is conveniently located that we could easily come back to it between stops on our daily itinerary. And another bonus is that there are multiple Astotel hotels all over Paris (17 locations I believe?), which we had access to if we wanted to use their restrooms, sit and rest, drinks/snacks in the lobby, etc. Which again, we found very helpful.

The only constructive criticism is that we found the sheets on our bed to be a little coarse. On a scale of 1 to 10, with 1 being the texture of sandpaper and 10 being very nice and soft bamboo sheets, we'd say the sheets on our bed were a 5 or 6. We didn't think it was that big a deal and didn't ask for them to be replaced. But it felt rough enough that we noticed it. 

Thank you for the wonderful stay at Hotel Malte Astotel. We highly recommend this hotel, and will definitely choose it again the next time we're in Paris., This hotel is the total package. There is a reason it gets five stars. The staff is phenomenal! The location is right down the street from the Louvre, 7 minute walk. There are restaurants and small grocery stores around the hotel. It's easy to get a taxi or Uber. 
We had the privilege room 208. It was very quiet. There were two of us. It was plenty of room, like a hotel in the U.S.. They cleaned the room daily. The bed  was comfortable with plenty of pillows. The bathroom was normal size. Loved the snacks and drinks replenished daily in the room fridge. They had a breakfast buffet each morning. Snacks in lobby all day.  The hotel itself was very clean and the air conditioner worked great! Would definitely come back to this hotel. Two suggestions for them to improve: 1. The shower toiletries  need to be updated. They did not smell the greatest. Minor I know. The buffet needs a little more variety each morning. It's the same every day. Meat, bread, cheese etc. This hotel is worth every penny!, We stayed at this wonderful property in the middle of the 2 Arrondissement near 4 Metro stops and many bus lines. Just north of the Louvre, this was an excellent location for our first couples trip to Paris. 

The hotel caters to English speakers and the staff were exceptional in their help to us with advice and reservations. Not sure how they could be friendlier! Our room was very comfortable and the amenities plentiful. 

They and their sister properties around the city offer complementary snacks and beverages to guests from 2 -11pm!

If you are looking for a mid priced hotel centrally located with great support and generous snacks, this is a great choice!, My second stay at this wonderful hotel. Room and bed comfortable with free fridge mini bar. Excellent breakfast. Free drinks and snacks everyday from 2pm. The staff was very helpful and kind as always. Perfect location for exploring Paris on foot. There are many restaurants nearby. Thanks to all the staff for making my trip so special. Special thanks to Seyil., My children and I spent a night at Hotel Malte for a whistle-stop tour of Paris. It was wonderfully comfortable, just what we needed when we returned exhausted and with aching feet. We were particularly impressed by the free all-day buffet, where you can help yourself to cake and hot drinks: an unexpected extra which we really appreciated. I'd highly recommend the Hotel Malte and look forward to a return visit., I looked a so many hotels for our short , 3 day stay in Paris . I finally choose Hotel Malte due to location and reviews . I am writing a review as I know how much it helped me! The staff are wonderful and very helpful . The rooms are clean , tasteful and quite comfortable. The free breakfast was fantastic! Don’t forget to try the fresh squeezed orange juice as it’s amazing ! Also such a nice touch every afternoon until late a night , there’s a nice selection of nuts , breads, juices , cakes and so much more .. all included in your hotel stay . The Louvre is a short walk away as are other sites and restaurants. I would stay here again without, Hotel Malte was an excellent location for walking around Paris.  It had a lot of wonderful restaurants and shops in the area. The staff was very helpful and always friendly.  They put out a lovely breakfast and evening snack.  The room was very clean, very comfortable.  We would have liked to have had some shelves or drawers to get some things out of the suitcase!  We really appreciated the refrigerator with complimentary drinks.  I highly recommend staying at Hotel Malte!, Different tourist attractions such as Musee du Louvre, Monmarte, Au Printemp and good restaurants such as Bistrot Richelieu, Le Glacé Alain Durcasse are within walking distances.  Staff are very helpful and friendly., This was a great location with easy access to several Metro stations, attractions, and restaurants.  It was great having snacks and drinks available all afternoon, especially since traveling with kids.  Good breakfast, and plenty of space for the 4 of us in the duplex room.  Having a second bathroom was very nice as well., We went to Paris to celebrate 70 birthday of my husband. The location of the hotel was wonderful. Close to restaurants metro and bus. And many places to see at night.  That stuff is very helpful and pleasant. Breakfast is very rich and has many choices.i for example need free of gluten. And they provide me every morning plate with things free of gluten. Rooms are very clean but a little small. Like in all France. I will surely recomend to my friends to stay there., This hotel was very well positioned and catered to our every need!  I absolutely loved the people working here as they went out of their way to ensure our stay was pleasant.  The location is superb for getting to various locations such as the Louvre or to the metro to visit more places in Europe!  Would definitely choose to stay here again., Wow wow wow…. I tell you… we’ve been around the globe and we’ve stayed in different hotels and by far this is my top choice.  Not only due to the location and amazing rooms, but THE SERVICE…. THIS IS where you can tell the staff is here to make your stay memorable.  We stayed with our twin girls for 4 nights.  Since the moment we arrived until the moment we left they made it memorable, especially Estefani and Jorge… what AMAZING hosts and human beings... they made us feel right at home, went above and beyond to get us another room to be more comfortable with our kids, the breakfast, the details Wow.  You will find thousands of hotels in Paris with good or even great service; but not one like this; this is another level.  It’s ELITE.  No wonder they hold the #1 spot in Paris hotels.  We cannot wait to return!, For a nice elegant and real Paris experience, Astotel’s Hotel Malte is the real deal. The location very convenient to the Louvre and many other locations of interest. Nice outdoor dinning is very close.

Excellent Experience! The staff were exceptional friendly and most helpful.

Please give this hotel a try if your looking, Polite staff and everyone speaks English. Nice location. Great hospitality. Breakfast was nice and the daily pastries were a nice convenience. For us, it was convenient and easy location to walk everywhere. Plenty of places to eat and see nearby., Very average
I stayed here with my family while visiting Paris. 
Very average hotel. 
Rooms are clean, AC is quiet, location is very central to a number of attractions. Very limited amenities in the bathroom so be sure to bring everything you need. 
Breakfast is totally ok. I was shocked that coffee is from a machine-it’s undrinkable! Like come on…this is Paris! A hotel in Europe and coffee from a machine?? 
We ended up having to leave the hotel each morning to do a coffee run. 
Staff are very friendly. 
I booked this place because it was #1 on Tripadvisor. 
If this is the best place in Paris…I hate to think  what the others are like., Hotel Malte is a wonderful boutique hotel in the heart of Paris.  Located perfectly within walking distance of the Louvre, Palace Royal and the Opera. The rooms are nicely decorated and very clean. Hotel staff is very helpful and friendly. Buffet breakfast is excellent. Free mini bar and afternoon snacks at the lobby are a very pleasant surprise. We stayed at the Hotel Malte twice during our two weeks in France., 3rd time we have stayed here &each time it gets better great staff breakfast is fantastic a waiter named maxwell was extremely helpful plus staff at the desk our accomodation was great nice & clean got serviced every day plus you can go down and have coffee nibbles all day as well until 2am in the morning plus it is the location we can walk everywhere and not get lost they have lots of sister hotels everywhere we will certainly stay again on our next adventure kind regards James fyfe, This hotel is just the perfect place if you want to explore Paris. This location in particular is amazing, friendly and helpful staff who truly care about your experience. And just a great breakfast selection both for myself who is vegetarian and for my meat loving father. The complimentary snack bar downstairs and the mini fridge in the room were just what we needed after a long day on our feet! And you can also access any of their other 16 locations around Paris for a quick pit stop any time you want. It's remarkable. Would highly recommend !, Friendly and accommodating staff helpful with transportation, restaurants and directions. Great location for all activities. Easy walk to Louvre. Breakfasts exceeded expectations. Mattress was too soft to my liking. Our travel agent recommended this hotel and we will as well., Stayed here for two nights after a work trip in the city. I made an error in my booking and the hotel were very gracious and sorted it out for me. Kindly offered breakfast on the morning of my arrival. Very good selection for breakfast. Excellent location and fab staff would recommend., The staff was superior, professional, accommodating and incredibly friendly!  The decor was lovely!   The breakfast was delicious! The beds were incredibly comfortable!  Centrally located.  The perfect place to enjoy your Paris experience!, The location of the hotel it’s wonderful. The staff it’s so helpful and always ready to help you!!!
Wonderful breakfast and afternoon snacks. At the same time, beverages are available throughout the whole day!!!, Excellent and friendly service, spotless detail, nice touch with free beverages. While the rooms are small, you can’t beat the location close to all museums and top notch service. We stayed for 4 nights and found it super convenient for our stay., A fabulous location. The Louvre was at the end of the road. We walked everywhere! Near to great Cafes and Boulangeries too. The staff are super helpful. The room is neat but perfect. Spotlessly clean. A Boutique Hotel just perfect for a city break in a wonderful city. X, Great location. As a family of 4 the family room was such an amazing option. Rooms are small but clean and have all that is needed. Location was perfect for a walk to the Seine, Louvre, restaurants and other attractions. 24hr snacks/drinks and free mini bar plus amazing breakfast spread that is included were such a needed convenience. The staff were incredibly kind and helpful. We even hung out in the lobby for an hour after checking out to cool off and kill time before our train. Wonderful experience!, We stayed 10 nights in the Malte hotel. We could not fault the accommodation, service, location. I actually never or vary rarely provide feedback however in this case it is a pleasure to give credit where it is due. Absolutely 5 star. I know where I will be staying on our next trip to Paris., My stay at this hotel was beyond all expectations. 
The service is excellent, the staff is very friendly and professional. The room is a bit small but to be expected in city hotels. Other than that the room has air conditioning, it is clean and quiet. The location is superb. It was a pleasure to stay at Hotel Malte., The location of this hotel is spot on.  It is within walking distance of the Louvre as well as the Tuileries.  There were several good restaurants that we dined at as well.

The staff was over the top, in my opinion.  The whole hotel stay experience was so good that I plan to stay there again when I travel to Paris.  As for the shower issue that I saw posted in a review, simply turn the shower head a little in the opposite direction of where a full shower door would be, and problem solved!  

And, the minibar is complimentary!, My husband and I stayed for 2 nights in Paris at this hotel and found it very clean and accommodating.  The staff was very friendly and helpful.  They arranged a taxi for us to the airport when we departed.  We enjoyed the breakfast and the location., I spend 3 nights at this hotel with my family and had a wonderful experience. First up, we were upgraded to a beautiful duplex room which was very spacious and clean. The room is well equipped, the staff is very friendly and supportive and the location of this hotel is simply perfect. It is walking distance from the Louvre and have ample cafes, restaurants and shopping all around. The hotel assisted with the airport transfers however even Uber is easily available and the train and bus stations are walking distance only.
The best and most important highlight of this hotel is that it is a part of a chain of hotels of Astotel Group located across Paris at key locations and as guests we have the luxury of using any of these hotels to freshen up and have coffee breaks between 2~2am. This is such a bonus for travelers especially with kids as it helps in taking a break during long days.
The breakfast was basic, not very wide spread…however it good and fresh, with usual eggs, bacons, fruits and baked goods. Maybe some fresh coffee would be advisable instead of having a coffee vending  machine.

The hotel also has a lounge area with free Wi-Fi and a work station to assist with any urgent needs. The have a small play area for toddlers as well.

Overall it was a please surprise for us at this hotel and will recommend this place for families as a nice, safe and warm stop in Paris. Thank you to the staff for all the love and support extended to us., My wife and i spent 3 nights in Paris and stayed here. It is a great location, very clean and friendly staff. The only reason i did not give it a 5 star is the shower/ bath was very small and opened to rest of bathroom and whole bathroom would get soaked from taking a shower bc there is no door or curtain blocking the water. So we had to use towels to dry everything off including toilet and sink. If your goal is to stay near the louvre then this is a great location., This hotel has to be one of the best deals in Paris! steps from the Louvre your able to get anywhere in the city with ease. 

Breakfast might not be worth it for the quality, but definitely worth it for the convenience., The location is fantastic. There are wonderful small cafes and restaurants close by. The staff is friendly and helpful and the hotel is very clean. Especially the reception desk and service, in general, are very attentive., Stayed the second time in this hotel which is
in the center of Paris. The attentive and very
friendly employees, the varied and perfect
breakfast, the quiet rooms to the courtyard, the
Metro nearby, nice Restaurants in area...
make it the no. 1 place to stay in Paris!!!
We'll definitely get back soon., The reception desk and service in general are super friendly and attentive. Great location, surrounded by nice restaurants, metros and bus lines that takes you shopping places and train stations. Room is a little small, clean and comfy bed. Highly recommend, This hotel and the service offered exceeded all expectations. The room was exactly as described, spacious, super clean and a very comfortable bed . 
The hotel staff were attentive at all times and really made us feel valued. 
Highly recommended!, I just returned from spending 5 nights at this hotel and it exceeded my expectations. The staff were friendly, the hotel immaculate, and it’s centrally located. Highly recommend! And I will stay here again!, This was our first time visiting Paris. We are a family of 3 (2 adults and one 12yr old boy). After much research and discussions with others who have visited, we found and booked this hotel. 

Having a good experience was vital for a successful trip. We found the location of this hotel excellent.  Only 5 mins walk to the Louvre, and a wonderful 25-30 min walk to the Arc or the Eiffel tower. The walk allowed us to experience the streets of Paris.

The room (1 queen + 1 pullout chair/bed) was bigger than I expected. Quiet room with very little noise (if any). The bathroom had all the amenities include full tub and shower.  It even included a small beverage fridge that is restocked daily (at no additional cost).

The service was great for a family. The people spoke multiple langs including English, and were very helpful.  Helped us with bags, extra water when needed, and help with directions or just general questions. 

The family areas, including the open-bar (non-alcholic) after 2pm was perfect for us, for when we returned from our day sight-seeing, or just wanting a snack.

I would highly recommend this to anyone visiting Paris, wanting to stay close to the Louvre area. I would stay again., We stayed at this hotel for 3 nights in August, as a family of 4. We had one of the large duplex family apartments and it was excellent - Twin beds and a bathroom on the upper floor, and a large bed and another bathroom on the lower floor. 

The hotel itself was beautifully presented and clean. All soft drinks and snacks were complimentary throughout the day. Breakfast was delicious. 

Our youngest son was poorly during one of the nights, and the night manager was extremely helpful in arranging for a doctor to come to the hotel. All staff were very friendly and welcoming, and nothing was too much trouble. 

The hotel was ideally situated for visiting various tourist attractions including the Louvre. We would highly recommend this hotel and wouldn’t hesitate to stay there on a return visit to Paris., Ideal location. Walking distance to just about everything. Staff incredible. So friendly and professional. Room was small yet perfectly laid out. Every area was impressively clean. Myself and my daughter had an amazing first time in Paris. We will be back, Great hotel for staying in Paris. Incredible clean rooms, good service, breakfast is good and in walking distance from public transportation and touristic highlights. Besides perfect hygiene the airco works wel and although quite small rooms more than enough space for a short visit. Also the complementary minibar is a great plus!, Excellent hotel near the Louvre. The location is great with many restaurants around.
We stayed in the duplex room 3 adults and 2 kids and it was amazing! Very clean specious enough with two baths and toilets.
Breakfast is excellent and so is the all day long snacks and drinks and the frig refill in the room.
The best thing about Malte is the service with Irene and Seyil were so helpful throughout our stay.

Highly recommended!!!, Great hotel very well located. Close to the Louvre,  a few meters from a lovely breakfast place (Baguete’s cafe), this hotel has a very friendly and welcoming staff. It is a chain of hotels and they allow you to use their toilets all around Paris.  They offer breakfast for a fee, and free drinks and snacks from 2-10pm. I highly recommend this place to anyone looking for a hotel in Paris., Our room was very clean and well-desingned. Staff were very friendly. Location was very good. The most wonderful part of the hotel is that there are some other hotels belong to the same brand and you can use these hotels restrooms and complimentary snacks which are served during the day. Snacks were very delicious, tables are very clean. It is one of the best hotel we have ever stayed., We have just spent 4 nights at this wonderful hotel in Paris. It is well located, very comfortable and the staff are very friendly and courteous. The hotel provided everything needed for a very comfortable and enjoyable stay in Paris., Excellent location - easy walking distance to all of the major sights, bus and metro stops, and many restaurants in the area.  Booked a year ago, during Covid, so got a great rate that included breakfast.  Included snacks and drinks from 2:00 every afternoon was also a great feature.  Room was a decent size, for Paris, but it was impossible to shower without getting the floor wet due to the narrow glass panel.  Would definitely stay here again., This was a very comfortable Paris hotel in a good location , not far from the Pyramides Metro station. We booked a superior room , which gives you a bit more space. The room was very clean and comfortable.  In the room you have a non alcoholic mini bar which is free and is replenished every day  . There is also a kettle and tea and coffee in the room. We really enjoyed the breakfast ,plenty of choice and good quality. The breakfast room is very  smart  . The hotel provides free snacks and soft drinks/ tea/ coffee between 2pm and 2 am in the breakfast room.  There were crisps,cakes ,nuts, croissants, biscuits, all for free.We thought this was a very good idea .Staff were friendly and helpful.  They booked us a taxi to the Gare du Nord the day we left , which cost around 20 euros. A very stylish,central hotel., Friendly helpful staff at a lovely hotel centrally located to Louvre, Seine River, shopping, culinary delights.  We enjoyed ourselves and look forward to coming back to visit this beautiful City of Lights., Hotel Malte Astotel were keen to keep their number one rating on TA. That is a healthy attitude and a bonus for the guests. The hotel is centrally located and a half hour walk to almost anywhere, including Eiffel Tower, Montmartre, Moulin Rouge and Musee D'Orsay!. The rooms are small but clean, comfortable bed and pillow and nice bath room with a bath. The only shortcoming in service is they don't have a kitchen for breakfast buffets or coffee snobs. The upside is that they are surrounfded by restaurants and cafes that fill the gap and mean you have to venture outside for your coffee. The staff were friendly and helpful. There is a lift up to the higher floors for heavy bags and weary travellers. A small cute and hospitable home away from home., The staff was friendly and helpful; the room was clean and comfortable.  The breakfast, which was included, was spectacular.  The best included hotel breakfast we’ve ever had, and we are frequent travelers.  In addition, they offer complimentary snacks and baked goods that are also available at sister hotels throughout the city.  The location is within walking distance of many of the best sites on the right bank.  A great find at a reasonable cost!, Our stay at Malte Astotel was fantastic. The hotel was quiet and cool - a real oasis in the August heat. The room was exceptionally comfortable and clean and the free soft drinks and snacks after 2pm were much appreciated. The staff were extremely friendly and helpful at all times, especially Seve (apologies if I misspelled your name) who went out of her way to make sure that we had all we needed. The location was great- only 10 -15 minutes walk to the Louvre. I strongly recommend this hotel!!, Lovely little hotel near the Louvre. We only got to stay here for one night as we were catching a train the next day but we really wished we could stay longer! Lovely air conditioned room with super comfy beds, and an incredible included breakfast with fresh baked goods, crepes, omlettes, assortments of cheeses and yogurts - anything you could want. They leave the breakfast area stocked with snacks and drinks in the afternoon as well (all complimentary for guests)! All the staff were very friendly and helpful as well. Thank you for the wonderful stay 😊, Excellent hotel.  Great location. Nice spacious room.  Room cleaned daily, lovely to return to.  Very helpful staff.  Air conditioning worked perfect. Highly recommend. (I must write 200 characters for review)!, Loved this hotel 
Great friendly service from start to finish. Nice rooms. You can’t have a shower without soaking the bathroom floor. The exterior air con fan is loud at night and a bit enjoying but would still recommend and  would return to this hotel. Great location to sites., The room was bigger than we expected. Our room faced the courtyard  and was quite.  The staff were very helpful . Our flight arrived early in the morning and they stored our luggage until check-in and allowed us to use the breakfast buffet for free. Regularly the breakfast buffet is 12€ per person (which is a good price as compared to any of the Cafés in the  area.  The hotel location is excellent within walking distance to many sites including the Louvre and the Opera House.

Definitely recommend staying here and their prices are very competitive considering the amenities offered., The team at this hotel is simply impeccable! They were extremely helpful and were never shy to help my wife and I out with any request. In fact, we stayed at 3 other hotels after La Bourdonnais and we really missed the great service we were spoiled with. It is easily the best service in Paris and they also serve the best croissants! Anyone who stays here will not be disappointed with this fantastic team. Thank you so much!, I stayed at the hotel for 4 nights at the end of July with my daughter.  The staff were very pleasant, welcoming and helpful throughout our stay.  A spotlessly clean hotel throughout. Our room was great with complimentary bathrobes and slippers and it was great to be able to have a bath. The beds were really comfortable.  Our room was overlooking the courtyard which was really quiet.   The complimentary mini bar was a bonus as we had fresh soft drinks and water replenished everyday.  We only had breakfast there on our last day however it was plentiful and good value.  The complimentary snacks from 2pm everyday were great, my daughter enjoyed nibbling on these.  Also nice to be able to sit and chill in the hotel courtyard and have a coffee.  The hotel is in a fantastic location, so quiet and close to everything, within a few minutes from le louvre museum and endless cafes and restaurants.  I will definitely return to stay in this hotel on my next visit to Paris and will highly recommend to friends and family., great location and staff - couldnt do enough for us! A liitle more expensive that we'd budgeted for, but well worth the extra money. Rooms and decor all novelle and fresh. Added benefit of being able to go to any Astotel hotel in Paris and stop of for free coffee and cakes. Free minibar too!, This hotel is in the 2nd arrondissement and within walking distance to many of the Paris sightseeing attractions.  Our room was clean, well appointed and the air conditioning was quiet and cool.  The room's non-alcoholic minibar is complimentary.  The hotel provides a mini-map with your room key which is very helpful.   The staff was professional and helpful., Very well located hotel in the centre of Paris - with walking distance to Louvre and many other attractions. 
The room was big, clean and nicely decorated and the staff really helpful.
Breakfast was tasty and the open bar with tea coffee and pastries until 2AM is really good ! 
You also get access to other bars in the other hotels in the chain around Paris.
Highly recommend!, We loved our stay at Hotel Malte. Friendly and helpful staff, fantastic family room with two bedrooms and two baths (rare to find in Europe), lovely breakfast, super clean and safe and great location--btw the Louvre and L'Opera. In addition a little map was provided with the associated hotels noted in case you needed a WC--which we used once and they were super nice there too. In addition free non-alcoholic beverages and snacks, as well as a restocked minibar of drinks every day. So nice to come home to cold water every day in the heat. We highly recommend this hotel and will definitely be back., Wow what a great place to stay everything was perfect. The hotel is in a great location close to the Louvre and metro. The hotel itself was wonderful and the rooms were amazing. You also get access to the other 16 hotels of the group will definitely stay here the next time in Paris. Big thanks to all the staff  for making our trip special xx